Sapwood is comparatively new wood. There is a time in the early
history of every tree when its wood is all sapwood. Its
principal functions are to conduct water from the roots to the
leaves and to store up and give back according to the season the
food prepared in the leaves. The more leaves a tree bears and
the more thrifty its growth, the larger the volume of sapwood
required, hence trees making rapid growth in the open have
thicker sapwood for their size than trees of the same species
growing in dense forests. Sometimes trees grown in the open may
become of considerable size, a foot or more in diameter, before
any heartwood begins to form, for example, in second-growth
hickory, or field-grown white and loblolly pines.

As a tree increases in age and diameter an inner portion of the
sapwood becomes inactive and finally ceases to function. This
inert or dead portion is called heartwood, deriving its name
solely from its position and not from any vital importance to
the tree, as is shown by the fact that a tree can thrive with
its heart completely decayed. Some, species begin to form
heartwood very early in life, while in others the change comes
slowly. Thin sapwood is characteristic of such trees as
chestnut, black locust, mulberry, Osage orange, and sassafras,
while in maple, ash, gum, hickory, hackberry, beech, and
loblolly pine, thick sapwood is the rule.

There is no definite relation between the annual rings of growth
and the amount of sapwood. Within the same species the
cross-sectional area of the sapwood is roughly proportional to
the size of the crown of the tree. If the rings are narrow, more
of them are required than where they are wide. As the tree gets
larger, the sapwood must necessarily become thinner or increase
materially in volume. Sapwood is thicker in the upper portion of
the trunk of a tree than near the base, because the age and the
diameter of the upper sections are less.

When a tree is very young it is covered with limbs almost, if
not entirely, to the ground, but as it grows older some or all
of them will eventually die and be broken off. Subsequent growth
of wood may completely conceal the stubs which, however, will
remain as knots. No matter how smooth and clear a log is on the
outside, it is more or less knotty near the middle. Consequently
the sapwood of an old tree, and particularly of a forest-grown
tree, will be freer from knots than the heartwood. Since in most
uses of wood, knots are defects that weaken the timber and
interfere with its ease of working and other properties, it
follows that sapwood, because of its position in the tree, may
have certain advantages over heartwood.

It is really remarkable that the inner heartwood of old trees
remains as sound as it usually does, since in many cases it is
hundreds of years, and in a few instances thousands of years,
old. Every broken limb or root, or deep wound from fire,
insects, or falling timber, may afford an entrance for decay,
which, once started, may penetrate to all parts of the trunk.
The larv√¶ of many insects bore into the trees and their tunnels
remain indefinitely as sources of weakness. Whatever advantages,
however, that sapwood may have in this connection are due solely
to its relative age and position.

If a tree grows all its life in the open and the conditions of
soil and site remain unchanged, it will make its most rapid
growth in youth, and gradually decline. The annual rings of
growth are for many years quite wide, but later they become
narrower and narrower. Since each succeeding ring is laid down
on the outside of the wood previously formed, it follows that
unless a tree materially increases its production of wood from
year to year, the rings must necessarily become thinner. As a
tree reaches maturity its crown becomes more open and the annual
wood production is lessened, thereby reducing still more the
width of the growth rings. In the case of forest-grown trees so
much depends upon the competition of the trees in their struggle
for light and nourishment that periods of rapid and slow growth
may alternate. Some trees, such as southern oaks, maintain the
same width of ring for hundreds of years. Upon the whole,
however, as a tree gets larger in diameter the width of the
growth rings decreases.

It is evident that there may be decided differences in the grain
of heartwood and sapwood cut from a large tree, particularly one
that is overmature. The relationship between width of growth
rings and the mechanical properties of wood is discussed under
Rate of Growth. In this connection, however, it may be stated
that as a general rule the wood laid on late in the life of a
tree is softer, lighter, weaker, and more even-textured than
that produced earlier. It follows that in a large log the
sapwood, because of the time in the life of the tree when it was
grown, may be inferior in hardness, strength, and toughness to
equally sound heartwood from the same log.

After exhaustive tests on a number of different woods the U.S.
Forest Service concludes as follows: "Sapwood, except that from
old, overmature trees, is as strong as heartwood, other things
being equal, and so far as the mechanical properties go should
not be regarded as a defect."[22] Careful inspection of the
individual tests made in the investigation fails to reveal any
relation between the proportion of sapwood and the breaking
strength of timber.
